The Joe Rogan experience.
The physical strain that you guys put your body through is insane.
And until you watch, like you guys compete and do all the,
like rocking, like running with the weight vest on and ever then yeah.
It's insane. Yeah. Yeah. The games. So like the games,
I like the big competition. It's like, it's, it's a wild show.
Cause it's sometimes it's five days.
Sometimes it's three days and we'll have like,
usually between 12 and 15 events over those days.
Do they let you know in advance what you're going to have to do.
Some, like, we might find out an event sometimes a week or two ahead.
Uh, but then like,
we'll have others where we're literally finding out the event as we go, like,
as we're competing.
So we don't even know what we're doing on the competition floor. They'll buy,
they'll be like, all right, start lifting that weight.
We'll tell you when to stop. When you hit your number of reps, you know,
stuff like that. It's, uh, it's interesting to train for.
Cause you don't know if your training for a one rep max or a hundred, uh,
you don't know if you're training for a 40 meter dash or a marathon, you know?
It's yeah. It keeps it interesting. Like we've had,
we've had events that are like 20 seconds long.
And then a couple years ago we had to row a marathon on like the stationary
concept, two rowers. So like 42,000 meters. So it.
Was that 26.2 miles rowing?
Yeah. Four. Yeah, 42,000 something meters.
I think the average time was about three hours.
I think a couple people were like three and a half hours.
Because he can't row as fast as you can run. Right. Kenya.
I mean,
I would prefer to row a marathon than run one just because it's easier on the
joints. Like your goes numb just from sitting on the seat.
Um, but yeah, I mean, it was just easy on the joints.
They did it cause they were like, we tested it.
And like after you run a marathon, like you can't walk for a couple of days.
Like your body's just trashed with rowing a marathon. Like you're sore,
but you're good to go the next.
Yeah.
It really doesn't really though depend on the person and what kind of condition
you're in. Cause my friend cam Haynes, that runs a marathon every day. Yeah.
I think if you're conditioned for it and that's all you're doing, you know, and.
But he lifts weights too.
Yeah. Yeah. I've I've met cam I've met him a couple of years ago. Got problems.
Does he? Yeah, he's crazy. He's legit, legit crazy. Like David Goggins crazy.
There's a few people that I know that I'm like, what are you doing yourself?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. I, I I'll watch cam and yeah, it runs a marathon every day. It's like,
why, what are you doing? Well, you.
It was terrible. He likes those ridiculous ultra races.
Like those the I to forties.
And stuff like that. Yeah. I got a buddy that does all those like 200 mile,
couple days long. And it's like, all right, like I get that. That's your thing.
I don't get it. But.
They're just testing. I mean, for cam he's just testing his mind.
He wants to find out when it breaks, you know? And he, he can't break. Yeah.
And every day strengthens it.
So every day he's running massive amounts of miles.
He'll run like 19 miles in the morning.
Don't run like six miles in the afternoon.
I mean, I wonder if like, if he's ever played with like other challenges,
you know, instead of just running.
Cause I know like if I'm practicing the same thing over and over, you know,
you adapt to it, you get better at it. You get more comfortable with it.
And it's like, one of those curve balls get thrown at you.
If something that you're not used to. And I mean,
that's basically that's CrossFit. Right? That's what our training is. Like,
we're trying to think of different things that can be,
be the test for us and figure out like, all right, if this comes up,
how do we deal with it?
Did you get involved? What did, what was,
did you just walk into a class one day and.
Yeah,
so I have a background in Olympic weightlifting did that for 10 years,
lived at the Olympic training center.
Like my goal was to go to the Olympics for weightlifting and then
that didn't pan out and like started focusing on school.
And then I just kind of, I guess just gained the freshman 15. So I was like,
all right. I either need to start working out again or change my diet.
So I was like, oh, I'll start working out. And uh, you know,
trying to find an Olympic weight, lifting gym,
is there like a needle in a haystack, but CrossFits are everywhere.
And so I just like Googled CrossFit near me cause they,
they use all the same equipment, like the barbells and bumpers.
And so I just showed up, introduced myself. I was like, Hey,
like I don't want to do your CrossFit thing. I'll be in the back room,
just doing clean and jerks and squats. And uh,
just kept doing that kind of showing up on a irregular basis.
And then one of the girls from the gym who was a competitor was just kind of
like bribing me into workouts every once in a while. Like, oh,
you might be good at this one, give this one a try, give this one a try.
And the, uh,
the owner of the gym actually signed me up for my first competition.
Cause he just, okay, I think you have potential in this.
You should give this a try. And uh,
so we made a deal that he signed me up and paid my entry fee.
And then if I won any money, he, I had to buy a pair of CrossFit shoes.
And CrossFit.
Shoes. I mean, at the time it was like the Reeboks, like the minimalist shoes,
like I was working out in air max nineties. And so he was like,
anything's better than that. And what year was this?
This would be back in like 2012. And uh, so anyways, I,
I won the competition, got a couple of hundred bucks and was like, yo,
this is kinda cool. Like just pocket money for a college kid. Like,
are there more competitions like this?
And so they showed me where to find these competitions.
And I just kind of started driving around the Northeast,
like all of new England. And if there was prize money at a competition,
I was signing up as I basically looked at it like a part-time job of like,
while I'm in school, full time and broke, I can make some pocket money. And uh,
yeah, just kinda, I was like, all right,
if I want to keep winning these competitions, I need to work on my weaknesses,
get better and then just kind of fell in love with it.
And it just ratchet it up bit by bit until like I'm at the world
championships and I'm like, oh. How did I get here?
And then you won over and over and over again, which is crazy.
It's a weird start man, to something that you not just excelled at. I mean,
I think you're the winningest guy ever, right?
Yeah. I've won one,
the been on the podium seven times and I've won it the last five years.
Bananas. Yeah. I mean, for someone who started off as like Lark.
Yeah. Um, I'm not blind to it. Like I'll be sitting in my fiance, like,
you know, it's just one of these cool opportunities get plopped in front of me.
And I'm like, how, how did I end up here?
Like this wasn't supposed to be my life. You know, I was a mechanical engineer,
you know, like I thought my sports career was over with Olympic weightlifting.
You know, I broke my back. Like it was a whole, what did you do to your back?
Uh, broke my L five and two spots. Oh yeah. How, uh,
just training too heavy too often. And uh.
It just fractured the actual bone. Yeah.
Yeah.
Like the little wings off the side and it was on two separate occasions too.
It was like, they were like a week or two apart from each other. And uh.
Hold on, you broke one and then you kept lifting.
Yeah. I didn't really have a choice.
So I was living at the Olympic training center and like,
there was a lot of pressure on the program to like produce and I was on the
junior world team.
I was leaving for Romania and a couple of weeks compete and uh, yeah,
it was just, I don't know. I wasn't training as smart as I should have been.
And so the first one while I was doing like a clean poll,
so just like a dead lift with a big explosion at the top and like loud pop on
one side, I dropped the bar and like it,
have you ever seen those heat packs that have the little clicky thing in them?
It was, that's what it felt like when it like clicked and then it just like the
inflammation just spreading and uh, and so, you know,
go to my room,
lay down for a couple of days and then it was,
oh, I knew something was wrong. Like I've never had an injury like that.
You know, I couldn't move.
Did you get an x-ray? Did.
You get an MRI? Cause it was like,
I was leaving for the competition like two weeks.
So it was like too late to call the alternate to.
Excuse me. So wait, do they know that you're this injured?
I mean, I told him like, Hey, I know, suck it up. I'm injured.
And I was told like, Hey, there's a difference between pain and injury.
And I was like, okay, uh, I'll get back to lifting.
And so then a couple of days goes by and I'm being super cautious.
Like basically stripped all the way out of my training. I'm just moving.
And then, uh, what was it?
It was heavy back squat and like load up.
And you're going for like a new one rep max,
like a week before you get on the airplane. And uh, yeah,
I hit the bottom of the whole left side goes, oh Jesus. And so anyways, I got,
went to the competition, did terribly, you know,
like the coach was like, Hey, what's your goal for this competition? I was like,
I just don't want to bomb out. I just want to make one, lift one lift in each.
And he's like, okay, we'll make sure that happens. I only made one snatch,
one clean and jerk. And then it was when I got back, I like put my foot down.
I was like, Hey, I'm not, I'm not lifting until I got an x-ray. And like,
they x-rayed it. And they're like, oh yeah, there's break right here,
right here.
And what does the coach feel bad?
Uh, I mean,
I feel for now that I have a little more life experience and like, you know,
at the time hated the guy. Um,
but now that I know the situation he was in,
he was under pressure for keeping his job to like, Hey,
you need to produce athletes.
Like none of the American athletes are doing well on the world. World scene.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.